Seaweed;src/theFridge/sound/Seaweed.mp4;[First you have to dry all the seaweed under the sun for about 3 hours. @ Take all the dried seaweed and place it over the soil. @ Ensure the seaweed is thickly placed over the soil. @ Reapply the seaweed at the same spot of the soil after 6 weeks to ensure the plants can fully absorb the minerals. @ After 10 weeks, remove the dried seaweed from the soil to prevent pest such as termites and worms from destroying the plants]
Rabbit-Manure;src/theFridge/sound/Rabbit Manure.mp4;[some instructions that @you guys have to follow]
Coffee-Grounds;src/theFridge/sound/Coffee Grounds.mp4;Choose a spot for your pile. Your easy composting pile should be readily accessible from your kitchen.Build or buy a compost bin. The best compost bin designs speed up the composting process and look better in your yard than a heaping pile, but a bin is not absolutely essential for cold composting. If you decide not to use a compost bin, be sure that your pile does NOT lean up against your house or a fence (unless of course you want your fence or house to slowly erode off into your compost pile) and that it remains protected from the elements using heavy duty black plastic.Prepare your compost pile spot by churning or tilling the soil to allow earthworms to aerate the pile, thereby speeding up the composting process.Start your pile out by laying down a 3 inch (7.6 cm) layer of brown ingredients.Add enough water to dampen but not soak the browns. When you're done watering, the browns should have the feel of a wrung-out sponge. Click here for recommended watering cans (yes, there are "good" and "bad" watering cans!).Add a 1/2 inch (13 mm) layer of healthy soil or pre-made compost to introduce the microorganisms to your pile. If you want to use compost activator to jump-start the process, add that in as well.Add your greens (kitchen food scraps and yard waste) as they become available.As your greens pile up, continue to add browns with a goal of maintaining a browns to greens ratio of between 5 and 8 to 1.Occasionally check the moisture level of your pile.If it gets drier than a wrung-out sponge, add water. If it gets over-watered, mix in some more dry browns (making sure that the ratio remains in line). Turn and fluff the pile every few months using a pitchfork or manure fork, bringing the inside material to the outside when you do.
Mouldy-Cheese;src/theFridge/sound/Cheese.mp4;Green stuff (high in nitrogen) to activate the heat process in your compost. Perfect heat-generating materials include: young weeds (before they develop seeds); comfrey leaves; yarrow; chicken, rabbit or pigeon manure; grass cuttings; etc. Other green items that compost well include fruit and vegetables; fruit and vegetable scraps; coffee grounds and tea leaves (including tea bags - remove the staple if you wish); vegetable plant remains; plants.Brown stuff (high in carbon) to serve as the "fiber" for your compost. Brown stuff includes fall (autumn) leaves; dead plants and weeds; sawdust straw; old flowers (including dried floral displays, minus plastic/foam attachments); and hay.Other items that can be composted but you may not have thought of before: paper towels; paper bags; cotton clothing (torn up); egg shells; hair (human, dog, cat etc.) Use all these items in moderation.Air. It is possible to compost without air (anaerobically), but the process employs different bacteria and an anaerobic compost pile will take on a sour smell like vinegar. It may also attract flies or take on a matted, slimy appearance. If you believe your compost pile needs more air, turn it, and try adding more dry or brown stuff to open up the structure. Turning a compost pile can be labor intensive and hard on the back. Some people use a shovel or pitchfork. There are also compost aerating tools that aim to make the process easier that are either of the "winged" type or "corkscrew" type.Water. Your pile should be about as damp as a sponge that has been wrung out. Depending on your climate, you can add water directly or rely on the moisture that comes in with "green" items. A lid on the compost bin will help to keep moisture in. If a pile gets too much water in it, it might not get enough air.Temperature. The temperature of the compost pile is very important and is an indication of the microbial activity of the decomposition process. The simplest way to track the temperature inside the heap is by feeling it with your hand. If it is warm or hot, everything is decomposing as it should, but if it is the same temperature as the surrounding air, the microbial activity has slowed down and you need to add more materials that are high in nitrogen to the bin.Soil or starter compost. This is not strictly necessary, but a light sprinkling of garden soil or recently finished compost between layers can help to introduce the correct bacteria to start the compost cycle a little more quickly. If you are pulling weeds, the soil left on the roots may be sufficient to serve this purpose. Compost starters are available, but probably not necessary.
Crab-or-Lobster-Shell;src/theFridge/sound/Fish and Crab.mp4;Layer or mix the different materials in your bin so that they come into contact with one another and so that you avoid any large clumps. Especially avoid compacting large quantities of green materials together, since they can rapidly become anaerobic.If possible, start with a layer of lightweight brown material, such as leaves, to help keep enough air near the bottom.Try for a mixture of anywhere from 3 parts brown to 1 part green to half and half, depending on what materials you have on hand.Sprinkle each layer lightly with water as you build the heap, if it requires additional moisture.Turn your pile regularly, once every week or two. Clear a patch next to the pile. Then use a pitchfork and move the entire pile to the clear spot. When it is time to turn the pile again, move it back to the original spot, or back into the bin. Mixing the pile in this way helps to keep air flowing inside the pile, which encourages aerobic decomposition. Anaerobic decomposition will smell very stinky (generally sour, like vinegar) and they decompose materials more slowly than aerobic bacteria. Turning the pile helps to encourage the growth of the right kind of bacteria and makes for a nice, sweet-smelling pile that will decompose faster.Try to move matter from inside to outside and from top to bottom. Break up anything that is clumpy or matted. Add water or wet, green materials if it seems too dry. Add dry, brown materials if the pile seems too wet. If you are still adding to the pile, take the opportunity while you turn it to introduce the new matter and mix it well with the older matter.
Fish-bones;src/theFridge/sound/Fish and Crab.mp4;They can be composted, but you may want to compost them separately because they will take longer to break down, especially in a cold climate with a shorter composting season. Shred heavy materials, if you can, for faster decomposition.Know what not to compost. Never compost the following items for reasons of health, hygiene and inability to break down: meat and meat scraps; bones; fish and fish bones; plastic or synthetic fibers; oil or fat; pet or human feces (except for manure of herbivorous creatures such as rabbits and horses); weeds that have gone to seed; diseased plants; disposable diapers (nappies); glossy paper or magazines; coal and coke ash; and cat litter. Place these items in the normal garbage collection.You should also try to avoid composting bread, pasta, nuts, and cooked food. They don't break down very easily, become quite slimy, and can hold up the heating, rotting-down process. (Old nuts left in the garden will disappear quickly if you have squirrels or monkeys around!)Manure of any animal that eats meat should never be added. While herbivorous animals' manure can be great for composting, the manure of a pig, dog, cat, or other carnivore/omnivore can contaminate your compost and plants with foodborne illnesses.
Citrus-Peel;src/theFridge/sound/Citrus peel.mp4;If all goes well, you will eventually find that you have a layer of good compost at the bottom of your bin. Remove this and spread it on or dig it into your garden beds.You may wish to sift it through a coarse mesh screen or use your hands or pitchfork to remove any larger chunks that haven't yet broken down.Very fresh compost can grow plants, but it can also rob the soil of nitrogen as it continues to break down. If you think you are not all the way done, either leave the compost in the bin for a while longer or spread it in your garden and let it sit there for a few weeks before planting anything in it.There is nothing wrong about leaving compost to wait (keep pitchforking) for high wood and bark. Pitchforking will usually move these materials to the top. Collect underneath the pile for this season. Leave the rest for next year. After about 5 years of this process (compost) the soil has enough nitrogen not to rob the plants. Peas and beans add to the nitrogen in the soil. Corn removes it. What you grow is as important as how to handle slow-composting material.
Apple;src/theFridge/sound/Apple.mp4;Purchase a pre-made composting container from any number of agricultural suppliers.Build your own box using wood. Make sure to place the box on bare soil with no watercourses.Create a bottom layer. Fork over the soil at the bottom of the container or box to aerate it and assist in drainage. Pile twigs and other straw-like material at the bottom about 4 inches (10.16 cm) deep.Fill your bin.Add nitrogen compounds, which are greens. These include cut grass, weeds, raw vegetable peelings, coffee grounds, green prunings, manure and diluted urine.Include carbon compounds, which are browns. These include cereal boxes and other cardboard, waste paper, newspaper, hedge clippings and brown prunings, sawdust, wood shavings and old leaves.Combine fast-rotting materials, usually greens, with slow-rotting materials, which are usually browns. For example, freshly mown grass clippings should be mixed up with twigs or other wood compounds to prevent an unpleasant smell.Add some Bacteria like pseudo monas to catalyze the decomposition and some minerals (macro and micro nutrients) if you wish.Cut up your material to make it decompose faster. Twigs and branches should be clipped into small pieces; eggshells should be crushed; cardboard should be shredded.Water the heap liberally as you are filling it. Check the compost pile after 3 days. Place your hand near the top to determine if it is hot. If it is hot, this is a sign that decomposition has begun. Wait another week, and check the pile again. If it is cool, you can begin to mix it. If it is still hot, wait another week.Mix up the matter.Use a shovel or garden fork to thoroughly mix the contents of the compost bin. Try to move contents from the bottom to the top and vice versa. This aids in the decomposition rate by adding the last ingredient needed to compost: oxygen.Add water if the contents seem dry.Continue to mix the matter throughout the next 4 to 6 weeks. Stop once the heap no longer heats up. The compost must be undisturbed in its final stages in order to complete the process.Check the bottom of the bin for compost ready for the garden. Determine if the compost is ready by studying it for a dark brown color that smells like earth.
Old-Pasta;src/theFridge/sound/Pasta.mp4;Hot and cold composting are essentially created the same way which we'll cover further down the page.They both require the same ingredients, including "good" microorganisms, air, water, nitrogen-rich "greens" (such as kitchen scraps, grass clippings, bird feathers or weeds), carbon-rich "browns"(straw, hay or leaves) and protection from the elements.When the compost is ready from either pile, the same amount will be needed for your garden depending on your climate. Warmer climates need up to a 3 inch layer while cooler climates need about an inch.Cold composting, as the name implies, creates a cooler pile than what is created by hot composting. Hot piles get up to 140 to 160 degrees F (60 to 71 degrees C) on the inside, while cold piles typically reach no more than 90 degrees F (32 degrees C).Composting Basics Want to know more about why compost is important and why the technique for making it is so important?See our Composting Basics page.The only way hot piles are able to get so hot so fast is by creating the pile all at once, thus creating a heat trap for the heat-emitting microorganisms while they decompose the browns and greens. They also require daily management and measurement in order to maintain ideal temperatures.All that hard work does carry some benefits, including the elimination of weed seeds for a less weedy garden and a better ability to kill disease-causing organisms. What hot piles can't do, however, is be an outlet for your food scraps and ongoing yard waste.Cold piles are called "easy composting" because they don't require you to create the pile all at once and because you can basically start them and then move on with little work required to maintain a healthy pile.If you're feeling ambitious and want to dive straight into hot composting, head over to our Compost How to Make Hot Piles page.Otherwise, let's get into the steps you need to follow when taking the easy composting route.
